# DyraPL
Dyra is a programming language which is for general-purpose use, prioritizing simplicity, performance, and safety to help people learn how to code, as a result, the target audience is beginners. There is a tutorial on how to use it in the files.
------------------------LONG DESC------------------------
Dyra is a programming language within on-going development that is for general-purpose use, and prioritizes simplicity, performance, and safety to coach people to code, as a result, making the target audience beginners. There is also a informative tutorial here in README.md. The code looks simple and the list of syntax is in the next line:
if, else, while, for, return, function, var, let, const, true, false, null, trigger, yield, repeat, halt, define, emit, bind, switch, break/exit, continue, match, try/catch, repeat-until, every, +, -, *, /, %, ==, !=, >, >=, <, <=, &&, ||, !, =, +=, -=, ->, =>, ===, <=>, ::, :=, **, %%, ^^
It uses BNF, it can be a Hybrid/JIT (which compiles and interprets at the same time), being tolerant and slightly strict in some cases, and can also support concurrency. It's a combination of Dynamic, Strong, and Static, and it also has type inference. It has support for custom types. Templates are being made. It's region-based and a garbage collection. It also includes options of RAII and reference counting. It doesn't allow unsafe memory access, it inspects or modifies objects/types at runtime, and includes threads, async, and actors. Me organizing the code will be possible in the next 5 updates (or 3). It should suppoty value and include deterministic destruction. It'll include meta-programming as well. It should become a result of a hybrid or a polyglot. It can be imperative if so. It needs to be safe, but modern, experimental, familiar and friendly, artistic and expressive, and fast and low-level. The main goal for this is to feel mathy, natural, rebellious, for kids, and robots. As seen in the files, it is made within Rust. Mostly.
